# Still hear from Huawei though I have left this special organization for more than half a year      
We know that in the first week of this December, two bad news hit the tranquility of the media. According to news report, [Shoucheng Zhang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shoucheng_Zhang), a great Chinese-American physicist and a successful investor, suicided at home in San Francisco on Dec.01, 2018, due to the severe torment from the depression. And coincidentally in the same date, [Wanzhou Meng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meng_Wanzhou), the chief financial officer of Huawei and daughter of the most successful Chinese telecommunication company's founder, was arrested in Canada at the behest of America for alleged violations of Iran sanctions.        
                           
Of course, sad and shocked for the bad news, our tiny planet lost a great physicist, an interesting soul, I know that some of my fellows in SYSU and the International Division of Theoretical Physics would suffered more from the emotional loss. Because their tutor was one of Shoucheng's students. But in terms of the more biased intersection with mine, I should discuss more about the other event, the arrestment to the chief financial officer. Actually this sub-event can not be distracted from some backgrounds, like the trade war between China and US, and the current 5G mobile networks progress around the world.                   
                 
The trade war has erupted since I was still working in Huawei, for which it was the first time that some global financial or economic events had some influences on my daily schedule. It was not bad to feel involved sometimes. But ZTE would definitely disagree with me because it fell in a serious dilemma after US's law prohibiting export of some vital American-made components. So far based on the higher level of technical self-dependence, Huawei seemed to have a better prospect and continuously deploy the 5G mobile networks with its impressive technology, in spite of some countries like Australia and New Zealand prohibiting their domestic telecommunications operators introducing the 5G technology from Huawei.             
                
As the biggest Chinese telecoms giant, Huawei has been the focus of international scrutiny, not only due to the series of events closely related to US, but also with several countries raising security concerns about its products. The most significant fear raised externally is whether China is using Huawei as a proxy so it can spy on rival nations and scoop up useful information, even some of which would overlap with some security issues. More specifically, as Huawei is now the second biggest smartphone-maker in the world, critics fear that the Chinese government could order Huawei to modify its devices to help hack attacks, eavesdrop on conversations or gain high-level access to sensitive networks. Besides Australia and New Zealand mentioned above, some other countries have also taken action, like Canada is carrying out a security review of Huawei's products, and UK service provider BT is removing Huawei kit from the core of its 5G network. More information can be seen in [What's going on with Huawei?](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-46483337)                  
                     
As a type of fortune, I live in London currently so that I can learn more about these ongoing affairs, the most significant prgramme of which is the brexit progress. But I would not discuss about it until I have enough knowledge for a word.                         
             
                             
                   
Yours,          
Chuwei Zhou               
2018.12.23    
